Your regular Fantasy Football host is out, so it looks like it’s time for Bear “Hands” McGraw, legendary baseball player and color commentator, to take over and introduce some real metrics into this league. Welcome to Statistical Anomalies, the write-up where the stats aren’t quite made up and the points sometimes matter. Using the modern powers of “computation” and “math”, we’ll be giving stats that are so detailed, you’ll wonder how you ever made any decisions without them.

As a color commentator, I, of course, don’t need to give any analysis of the actual league. Games were played: some were good, some were bad, and some were downright ugly. But, seeing as the commissioner is out doing “fun things”, I’ll have to pick up the slack. 

The Fighting Americans (and what a good team that is, that coach must be a genius) were victorious over an Avengers Athletics team that forgot what sport they were playing, with the largest spread of the week of 49.38 points. On the other extreme, istilldontknowstuff won with the second closest margin of victory ever in our league, beating out The Brute Squad by a mere .34 points (the record being istilldontknowstuff’s Week 9 victory over the Non-fiction People with only .2 points last year, 85.18 to 84.98). The Black Bears proved victorious over The_Dark_Side 113.56 to 106, although a special callout to The_Dark_Side for finishing on a round number, which last happened in the Wild Card round of playoffs in 2016. The Moose (no longer whispering) continued his one-animal football rampage, winning over the Non-fiction people 92.68 to 87.54 and bringing his record to 4-0. Finally, with the high score of the week, The Enigma, and the unknowable inner machinations of the mind behind them, beat Password is Taco 123.78 to 89.44. 

And now, using our “computational” powers, it’s time for the advice that will make you win games. Today’s topic: the Intangibles. How do things that literally have no effect on your team make you win? Turns out, having a long team name is bad. Across our past 5 years of play, winning games is negatively correlated with the length of your team name (r = -.259). In fact, every character you knock off your team’s name is worth almost 7 points at the end of the season. This means (assuming a statistically average team, which definitely isn’t true in this example), if the best team changed their name from “Fighting Americans” to “FA”, they would immediately get 107.5 points over the season. Spectacular.

However, not everything in a name makes a difference. The number of words (treating underscores as spaces) means basically nothing (r = -.023). You can have a whole paragraph in your team’s name, as long as you make it as short as possible. Similarly, how early your team comes to the beginning of the alphabet doesn’t matter (r = -.055). You don’t have to be first on the list to be the best team in the game.

And that’s this week’s analysis. Good luck to the teams out there that are playing football next week. There will be some high-scoring games, and some low-scoring games, and likely even some average-scoring games. If your team is on a bye like the Black Bears, enjoy your recovery period, and make sure you bench your players so they get to take their time off too. Tune in next week for another installment of Bear “Hands” McGraw’s Statistical Anomalies.

